hello my lovelies it's Suzanna and today
I want to show you how to solve this
problem it was a question in an
admission test for the University of
Oxford so let's see if we can solve it
an irregular hexagon with all sides of
equal length is placed inside a square
of side length one as shown below we get
a picture to our problem which is not to
scale and the question is what is the
length of one of the hexagon sides we
get five different answers to our
question and we have to pick the right
one so let's take a look at our Square
here we get the information that the
side length is one so we had side length
one side length one of our square and
inside our Square we have our hexagon so
the first problem is to find this
hexagon but it is in here so we have one
side two 3 four five six sides this is
the hexagon we have to work with now we
get the information that all sides are
of equal length and we have to find the
length of one of these sides so I call
the length of one of the hexagon sides X
and then we have X here as well because
all sides of our hexagon are of equal
length it is an irregular hexagon so not
all angles have to be the same size
which is okay it's not the case here but
they they told us that it is an
irregular one okay a nice version of
this picture is here now and now we just
have to find the length of
X where to start um we could start here
in this triangle that we have here now
because it is also a right triangle and
one of the sides is of length x what we
want to find so maybe we could use the
pythag in theorem to find the length of
X we only need the length of this side
here and the length of this side here
how long are they well we get the
information that this side of the square
is of length one and this part here is
of length x so this remaining part is
the whole side minus this part here so
it's 1 - x the same here from the whole
side from the one we subtract the X so
that's the length of this part that we
want to work with so it's 1 - x as well
and now we're ready for the Pythagorean
theorem for this we first have to find
the hypotenuse of our triangle that's
the side that lies across the right
angle so this side here that's our
hypotenuse and the Pythagorean theorem
says then take one of the other sides so
we start with this one it's 1 - x and
square this so we write it in
parentheses and square it and then add
the length of the other side which is 1
- x as well and square this as well so
we write it in parentheses and square it
and this equals the hypotenuse squared
so X squar in our case here we have an
equation now X is our only only variable
in here we can solve this equation for x
and then we found our solution already
because that was what we were searching
for so let's see how we can solve this
equation for
x maybe we start on the left side by
expanding the bracket so we have a
squared bracket here that means we can
take the bracket and multiply it by
itself and then we have the plus and the
same here we have squared brackets so we
take the bracket and multiply it by
itself on the other side we have our
X2 now here the multiplication we foil
it out so we multiply every element from
the first bracket with every element
from the second bracket we start 1 * 1 =
1 1 * - x = - x - x * 1 = - x and - x *
- x then we have + x^2 then we have the
plus here and this multiplication is
exactly the same as this one so we can
just take our result and write it here
again and on the other side we have our
X squ now let's simplify we start with
the
x² terms so we have x^2 + X2 which equal
2x^2 then we have the X ones - x - x - x
- x =
-4x and then the numbers 1 + 1 = 2 and
on the other side we still have our x s
we bring the x s to the left side by
subtracting X2 on both sides and then we
get 2x^2 - x^2 = x^2 then we still have
the
-4x the + 2 and on the other side this
cancels out and we get Z
this is a perfect quadratic equation
that we can solve with the quadratic
formula so I write the formula down
first we find our solutions to this
equation by doing the following Min - b
+ minus the square < TK of b^ 2 - 4 a c
divided 2 a what is my a what is my B
and what is my C here a is always the
number in front of my X squ if you don't
see any number it is a one so a equals
one B is the number in front of my x
with a sign so it's -4 and C is the
number that doesn't have any X here so
it's the two and then we put everything
into our formula what do we get minus B
= -4
+ minus the square root of b^ 2 so we
take our -4 put it in parentheses and
square it minus 4 * 1 * c = 2 and in the
denominator we have 2 * a so 2 *
1 Let's calculate this - -4 = 4 then
what do we have in our square root -4
2ar = 16 minus 4 * 2 = 8 so 16 - 8 = 8
in the Square Ro T and in the
denominator we have two
only this is our result we get two
results because one of them so our first
result I call it X1 is if we take four
plus the Square t of 8 and divide it by
2 and our second solution I call it X2
is if we take the minus so four minus
the square < TK of 8 and we divide it by
two we found two solutions let's go back
to the beginning here our Solutions we
got five different solutions and none of
these look like our Solutions yet
perfect okay let's see um we got two
solutions which is a problem in itself
because we only can pick one so let's
see if both of these are valid what
about the first one we have 4 + the < TK
of 8 / 2 this is the value for our x x
is part of the square here so the side
of the Square was of length one so X has
to be smaller than one otherwise it
wouldn't fit into the square right okay
is this smaller than one we have 4 plus
the square < TK of 8 the square root of
eight is something positive so to the
four we add something positive and then
we divide this by two this is larger
than one even if the square root wasn't
here 4 / 2 equals 2 already so this is
not a valid solution it's too
big okay so what about our second
solution well let's simplify it and see
if we get one of these answers here we
have one big fraction and we have this
minus here in the numerator so we can
write this one big fraction into two
smaller fractions that are connected
with this minus here the denominator
stays the same and the first numerator
is the first part and the second
numerator is the second part the square
< TK of
8 okay let's calculate 4 / 2 = 2 and
here we have to do something with the
square root of eight because in our
Solutions here there is no square root
of 8 so uh we can write the eight as 2 *
4 right
and because we have a multiplication in
our square root we can write this as two
separate square roots so the square root
of two first and then multiplied by the
square root of four and the square root
of 4 we can calculate this this is just
two so we can cancel the two and the two
here so our result is 2- theun of 2 and
this is answer B I hope you enjoyed it
and I'm curious how you solved this
problem so please let me know in the
comments I wish you a wonderful day and
I hope to see you in one of my next
videos take care